WHEREAS the insured named in the Schedule hereto has by a proposal and declaration dated stated in the
Schedule (which shall be the basis of this Contract and is deemed to be incorporated herein) has applied to
THE ORIENTAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the Company) for the insurance
hereinafter set forth in respect of persons(s) named in the Schedule hereto (hereinafter called the INSURED
PERSON (S) )and has paid premium to the Company as consideration for such insurance to be serviced by
Third Party Administrator (hereinafter called the TPA) or the Company as the case may be.
1.1 NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSES that subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and definitions
contained herein or endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon, the Company undertakes that, if during the
period stated in the Schedule any insured Person shall contract any disease or suffer from any illness /
ailment / disease (hereinafter called ‘DISEASE’) or sustain any bodily injury through accident (hereinafter
called ‘INJURY’) and if such disease or injury shall require, upon the advice of a duly qualified Physician /
Medical Specialist/Medical Practitioner (hereinafter called MEDICAL PRACTITIONER) or of a duly qualified
Surgeon (hereinafter called ‘SURGEON’) to incur (a) hospitalisation expenses for medical/surgical treatment
at any Nursing Home/Hospital in India as herein defined (hereinafter called ‘HOSPITAL’) as an inpatient OR
(b) on domiciliary treatment in India under Domiciliary Hospitalisation Benefits as hereinafter defined, the
Company/ TPA will pay to the Hospitals (only if treatment is taken at Network Hospital(s) with prior consent of
Company/TPA) or re-imburse to the insured person, as the case may be, the amount of such expenses. It is
a precondition that these expenses are reasonably and necessarily incurred in respect thereof by or on
behalf of such insured person but not exceeding the sum insured in aggregate in any one period of
insurance stated in the schedule hereto.
1.2 The policy reimburses the payment of Hospitalisation and / or Domiciliary Hospitalisation expenses only
for illness/diseases contracted or injury sustained by the Insured Persons. In the event of any claim
becoming admissible under this policy, the Company/TPA will pay to the hospital (only if treatment is taken
at network hospitals with prior consent of Company/TPA) or re-imburse to the insured, as the case may be,
the amount of expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred under different heads mentioned below thereof
by or on behalf of such Insured Person not exceeding the Sum Insured in aggregate in respect of Insured
Person as stated in the schedule for all claims admitted during the period of insurance mentioned in the
schedule.
FOLLOWING REASONABLE & CUSTOMARY EXPENSES ARE REIMBURSABLE UNDER THE POLICY
a. Room, Boarding and Nursing Expenses as provided by the Hospital /Nursing Home not exceeding 1 % of the
Sum Insured or Rs. 5000 /- per day whichever is less.
b. I.C. Unit expenses not exceeding 2 % of the Sum Insured or Rs. 10,000 /- per day whichever is less.
 (Room including I.C.U. stay should not exceed total number of admission days).
c. Surgeon, Anaesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialists Fees.
d. Anaesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation Theatre Charges, Surgical Appliances, Medicines & Drugs, Dialysis,
Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy, Artificial Limbs, Cost of Prosthetic devices implanted during surgical procedure like
pacemaker, Relevant Laboratory / Diagnostic test, X-Ray etc..
e. Ambulance services - 1% of the sum insured or Rs 2000/- whichever is less shall be reimbursable in case
patient has to be shifted from residence to hospital in case of admission in Emergency Ward / I.C.U. or from one
Hospital / Nursing home to another Hospital / Nursing Home by registered ambulance only for better medical
facilities. 
Note:
1. Hospitalization expenses incurred for donating an organ by the donor (excluding cost of organ if
any) to the insured person during the course of organ transplant will also be payable. However in any case
the liability of the Company will be limited to over all Sum Insured of the Insured Person.
2. DEFINITIONS:
2.1 HOSPITAL/NURSING HOME: A hospital/Nursing home means any institution established for in- patient care
and day care treatment
of illness and / or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical
Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified under the Schedule of
Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as under:
- has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
- has at least 10 inpatient beds, in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 15 inpatient beds in all
other places;
- has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge round the clock;
- has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out
- maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance company’s authorized personnel.
The term ‘Hospital/Nursing Home’ shall not include an establishment which is a place of rest, a place for the
aged, a place for drug addicts or a place for alcoholics, a hotel or a similar place.
Note: In case of Ayurvedic / Homeopathic / Unani treatment, Hospitalisation expenses are admissible only when
the treatment is taken as in-patient, in a Government Hospital / Medical College Hospital.
2.2 SURGICAL OPERATION: Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis
and cure of diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care centre by a
medical practitioner.
2.3 HOSPITALISATION PERIOD: Expenses on Hospitalisation are admissible only if hospitalisation is for a minimum period of 24 hours. However,
(A) This time limit will not apply to following specific treatments taken in the Network Hospital/Nursing Home
where the Insured is discharged on the same day. Such treatment will be considered to be taken under Hospitalisation Benefit.
i. Haemo Dialysis,
ii. Parentral Chemotherapy,
iii. Radiotherapy,
iv. Eye Surgery,
v. Lithotripsy (kidney stone removal),
vi. Tonsillectomy,
vii. D&C,
viii. Dental surgery following an accident
ix. Hysterectomy
x. Coronary Angioplasty
xi. Coronary Angiography
xii. Surgery of Gall bladder, Pancreas and bile duct
xiii. Surgery of Hernia
xiv. Surgery of Hydrocele.
xv. Surgery of Prostrate.
xvi. Gastrointestinal Surgery.
xvii. Genital Surgery.
xviii. Surgery of Nose.
xix. Surgery of throat.
xx. Surgery of Appendix.
xxi. Surgery of Urinary System.
xxii. Treatment of fractures / dislocation excluding hair line fracture, Contracture releases and minor
reconstructive procedures of limbs which otherwise require hospitalisation.
xxiii. Arthroscopic Knee surgery.
xxiv. Laproscopic therapeutic surgeries.
xxv. Any surgery under General Anaesthesia.
xxvi. Or any such disease / procedure agreed by TPA/Company before treatment.
(B) Further if the treatment / procedure / surgeries of above diseases are carried out in Day Care Centre, which
means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and / or injuries OR a medical set -up within a
hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the
supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as
under:-
1. has qualified nursing staff under its employment,
2. has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge,
3. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own, where surgical procedures are carried out4. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance company’s authorized
personnel,
the requirement of minimum number of beds is overlooked.
(C) This condition of minimum 24 hours Hospitalisation will also not apply provided, medical treatment, and/or
surgical procedure is:
i. undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than 24 hrs because of
technological advancement, and
ii. which would have otherwise required a hospitalization of more than 24 hours.
ABOVE ARE ADMISSIBLE SUBJECT TO TERMS & CONDITIONS OF THE POLICY.
NOTE: PROCEDURES / TREATMENTS USUALLY DONE IN OUT PATIENT DEPARTMENT ARE NOT
PAYABLE UNDER THE POLICY EVEN IF CONVERTED TO DAY CARE SURGERY / PROCEDURE OR AS IN
PATIENT IN THE HOSPITAL FOR MORE THAN 24 HOURS.
2.4 DOMICILIARY HOSPITALISATION BENEFIT: Domiciliary hospitalization means medical treatment for a
period exceeding three days for such an illness/disease/injury which in the normal course would require care
and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under any of the following circumstances:
- the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, or
- the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of room in a hospital.
Subject however to the condition that Domiciliary Hospitalisation benefit shall not cover
a) Expenses incurred for pre and post hospital treatment and
b) Expenses incurred for treatment for any of the following diseases :
i. Asthma
ii. Bronchitis,
iii. Chronic Nephritis and Nephritic Syndrome,
iv. Diarrhoea and all types of Dysenteries including Gastro-enteritis,
v. Diabetes Mellitus and Insipidus,
vi. Epilepsy,
vii. Hypertension,
viii. Influenza, Cough and Cold,
ix. All Psychiatric or Psychosomatic Disorders
x. Pyrexia of unknown origin for less than 10 days,
xi. Tonsillitis and Upper Respiratory Tract infection including Laryngitis and Pharingitis,
xii. Arthritis, Gout and Rheumatism.
 Note: Liability of the Company under this clause is restricted as stated in the schedule attached hereto.
3. OTHER DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS :
3.1. INSURED PERSON: Means Person(s) named on the schedule of the policy.
3.2. ENTIRE CONTRACT: This policy / proposal and declaration given by the insured constitute the
complete contract of this policy. Only Insurer may alter the terms and conditions of this policy. Any
alteration that may be made by the insurer shall only be evidenced by a duly signed and sealed
endorsement on the policy.
3.3. THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATOR (TPA): means any company who has obtained licence from
IRDA to practice as a third party administrator and is appointed by the Company.
3.4. NETWORK PROVIDER: means hospitals or healthcare providers enlisted by an insurer or by a
TPA and insurer together, to provide medical services to an insured on payment, by a cashless facility.
3.5. HOSPITALISATION PERIOD: The period for which an insured person is admitted in the hospital as
inpatient and stays there for the sole purpose of receiving the necessary and reasonable treatment for the
disease / ailment contracted / injuries sustained during the period of policy. The minimum period of stay
shall be 24 hours except for specified procedures/ treatment where such admission could be for a period
of less than 24 consecutive hours.
3.6 PRE-HOSPITALISATION EXPENSES: Medical Expenses incurred during the period upto 30 days prior to
the date of admission, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was
required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company.
3.7 POST-HOSPITALISATION EXPENSES: Medical Expenses incurred for a period upto 60 days from the date
of discharge from the hospital, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was
required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company.
3.8 MEDICAL PRACTITIONER: A Medical practitioner is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical
Council of any state or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the
government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and
is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of license.
3.9 QUALIFIED NURSE: Qualified nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of
India or the Nursing Council of any state in India.
3.10 PRE EXISTING DISEASES: Any condition, ailment or injury or related condition(s) for which you had signs
or symptoms, and / or were diagnosed, and / or received medical advice / treatment within 48 months prior to the
first policy issued by the insurer.
 Further any complications arising from pre-existing ailment / disease / injuries will be considered as a
part of that pre existing health condition.
3.1ILLNESS
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological
function which manifests itself during the Policy Period and requires medical treatment.
a Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment
which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/
injury which leads to full recovery.
b. Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or
injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:—it needs ongoing
or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /
or tests—it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief o f symptoms— it
requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it—it
continues indefinitely—it comes back or is likely to come back.

3.12 INJURY
Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and
directly caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified
and certified by a Medical Practitioner.
3.13 CONGENITAL ANOMALY
Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is
abnormal with reference to form, structure or position.
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly
which is not in the visible and accessible parts o f the body is called Internal
Congenital Anomaly
b. External Congenital Anomaly
which is in the visible and accessible parts o f the body is called External
Congenital Anomaly
3.14 IN-PATIENT: An Insured person who is admitted to hospital and stays for at least 24 hours for the sole
purpose of receiving the treatment for suffered ailment / illness / disease / injury / accident during the currency of
the policy.
3.15 REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY CHARGES: means the charges for services or supplies, which are the
standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for
identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the illness / injury involved.
For a networked hospital means the rate pre-agreed between Networked Hospital and the TPA for surgical /
medical treatment that is necessary , customary and reasonable for treating the condition for which insured
person was hospitalized.
NOTE: Any expenses (as mentioned above) which are not covered under the policy and / or which are not
reasonable, customary and necessary, the same have to be borne by the insured person himself.
3.16 CASHLESS FACILITY: It means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments of
the costs of the treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions,
are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent of pre- authorization approved.
3.17I .D. CARD: means the card issued to the Insured Person by the TPA to avail Cashless facility in the
Network Hospital.
3.18DAY CARE PROCEDURE: means the course of Medical treatment / surgical procedure listed at 2.3 (A)
carried out, in Networked specialised Day Care Centre which is fully equipped with advanced technology
and specialised infrastructure where the insured is discharged on the same day, the requirement of
minimum beds will be over looked provided other conditions are met.
 3.19 LIMIT OF INDEMNITY: means the amount stated in the schedule against the name of each insured
person which represents maximum liability for any and all claims made during the policy period in respect of
that insured person in respect of that insured person in respect of hospitalization taking place during currency
3.20 ANY ONE ILLNESS: Any one illness means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45
days from the date of last consultation OR 105 days from the date of discharge ,whichever is earlier, from the
Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment may have been taken.
3.21 MATERNITY EXPENSES AND NEWBORN CHILD COVER BENEFIT EXTENSION:
a. This is an optional cover which can be obtained on payment of 10% of the total basic premium for all the
insured persons under the policy. Total basic premium means the total premium computed before
applying group discount and /or High Claims Ratio Loading, Low Claim Discount.
b. Option for Maternity Expenses and Newborn Child Cover Benefit Extension has to be exercised at the
time of inception of the policy period and no refund is allowable in case of Insured’s cancellation of this
option during the currency of the policy.
c. Those insured persons who are already having two or more living children will not be eligible for this
benefit
d. Claim in respect of only first two children and/or operations associated therewith will be considered in
respect of any one insured person covered under the policy or any valid and effective renewal thereof
e. The maximum benefit allowable under this clause will be upto Rs. 50,000/-and would fall under different
heads mentioned under item 1.2.. The sum insured under above benefit shall be a part of basic sum
insured.
Special conditions applicable to Maternity Expenses & Newborn Child Cover Benefit Extension
a. These benefits are admissible only if the expenses are incurred in hospital/nursing home as in-patients in
India.
b. A waiting period of 9 months is applicable for payment of any claim relating to normal delivery or
caesarean section or abdominal operation for extra uterine Pregnancy. The waiting period may be
relaxed only in case of delivery, miscarriage or abortion induced by accident or other medical emergency.
c. Expenses incurred in connection with voluntary medical termination of pregnancy during the first twelve
weeks from the date of conception are not covered.
d. Pre-natal and post-natal expenses are not covered unless admitted in Hospital/nursing home and
treatment is taken there.
e. Pre Hospitalisation and post Hospitalisation benefits are not available under this section.
f. Newly born child shall be covered from day one upto the age of 3 months and expenses incurred for
treatment taken in hospital as in patient shall only be payable subject to within the specified sum insured
of Rs 50,000/- under Maternity benefit extension. Congenital diseases of newly born child shall be
excluded.
3.22 PERIOD OF POLICY: This insurance policy is issued for a period of one year shown in the schedule.






